docs/DeveloperGuide.md, before:

# Developer Guide 

* [Setting Up](#setting-up)
* [Design](#design)
* [Implementation](#implementation)
* [Testing](#testing)
* [Dev Ops](#dev-ops)
* [Appendix A: User Stories](#appendix-a--user-stories)
* [Appendix B: Use Cases](#appendix-b--use-cases)
* [Appendix C: Non Functional Requirements](#appendix-c--non-functional-requirements)
* [Appendix D: Glossary](#appendix-d--glossary)
* [Appendix E : Product Survey](#appendix-e--product-survey)


## Setting up

#### Prerequisites

1. **JDK `1.8.0_60`**  or later<br>

    > Having any Java 8 version is not enough. <br>
    This app will not work with earlier versions of Java 8.
    
2. **Eclipse** IDE
3. **e(fx)clipse** plugin for Eclipse (Do the steps 2 onwards given in
   [this page](http://www.eclipse.org/efxclipse/install.html#for-the-ambitious))
4. **Buildship Gradle Integration** plugin from the Eclipse Marketplace


#### Importing the project into Eclipse

0. Fork this repo, and clone the fork to your computer
1. Open Eclipse (Note: Ensure you have installed the **e(fx)clipse** and **buildship** plugins as given 
   in the prerequisites above)
2. Click `File` > `Import`
3. Click `Gradle` > `Gradle Project` > `Next` > `Next`
4. Click `Browse`, then locate the project's directory
5. Click `Finish`

  > * If you are asked whether to 'keep' or 'overwrite' config files, choose to 'keep'.
  > * Depending on your connection speed and server load, it can even take up to 30 minutes for the set up to finish
      (This is because Gradle downloads library files from servers during the project set up process)
  > * If Eclipse auto-changed any settings files during the import process, you can discard those changes.
  
#### Troubleshooting project setup

**Problem: Eclipse reports compile errors after new commits are pulled from Git**
* Reason: Eclipse fails to recognize new files that appeared due to the Git pull. 
* Solution: Refresh the project in Eclipse:<br> 
  Right click on the project (in Eclipse package explorer), choose `Gradle` -> `Refresh Gradle Project`.
  
**Problem: Eclipse reports some required libraries missing**
* Reason: Required libraries may not have been downloaded during the project import. 
* Solution: [Run tests using Gardle](UsingGradle.md) once (to refresh the libraries).
 

## Design

### Architecture

<img src="images/Architecture.png" width="600"><br>
The **_Architecture Diagram_** given above explains the high-level design of the App.
Given below is a quick overview of each component.

`Main` has only one class called [`MainApp`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/MainApp.java). It is responsible for,
* At app launch: Initializes the components in the correct sequence, and connect them up with each other.
* At shut down: Shuts down the components and invoke cleanup method where necessary.

[**`Commons`**](#common-classes) represents a collection of classes used by multiple other components.
Two of those classes play important roles at the architecture level.
* `EventsCentre` : This class (written using [Google's Event Bus library](https://github.com/google/guava/wiki/EventBusExplained))
  is used by components to communicate with other components using events (i.e. a form of _Event Driven_ design)
* `LogsCenter` : Used by many classes to write log messages to the App's log file.

The rest of the App consists four components.
* [**`UI`**](#ui-component) : The UI of tha App.
* [**`Logic`**](#logic-component) : The command executor.
* [**`Model`**](#model-component) : Holds the data of the App in-memory.
* [**`Storage`**](#storage-component) : Reads data from, and writes data to, the hard disk.

Each of the four components
* Defines its _API_ in an `interface` with the same name as the Component.
* Exposes its functionality using a `{Component Name}Manager` class.

For example, the `Logic` component (see the class diagram given below) defines it's API in the `Logic.java`
interface and exposes its functionality using the `LogicManager.java` class.<br>
<img src="images/LogicClassDiagram.png" width="800"><br>

The _Sequence Diagram_ below shows how the components interact for the scenario where the user issues the
command `delete 3`.

<img src="images\SDforDeletePerson.png" width="800">

>Note how the `Model` simply raises a `TaskListChangedEvent` when the Task List data are changed,
 instead of asking the `Storage` to save the updates to the hard disk.

The diagram below shows how the `EventsCenter` reacts to that event, which eventually results in the updates
being saved to the hard disk and the status bar of the UI being updated to reflect the 'Last Updated' time. <br>
<img src="images\SDforDeletePersonEventHandling.png" width="800">

> Note how the event is propagated through the `EventsCenter` to the `Storage` and `UI` without `Model` having
  to be coupled to either of them. This is an example of how this Event Driven approach helps us reduce direct 
  coupling between components.

The sections below give more details of each component.

### UI component

<img src="images/UiClassDiagram.png" width="800"><br>

**API** : [`Ui.java`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/ui/Ui.java)

The UI consists of a `MainWindow` that is made up of parts e.g.`CommandBox`, `ResultDisplay`, `TaskListPanel`,
`StatusBarFooter`, `BrowserPanel` etc. All these, including the `MainWindow`, inherit from the abstract `UiPart` class
and they can be loaded using the `UiPartLoader`.

The `UI` component uses JavaFx UI framework. The layout of these UI parts are defined in matching `.fxml` files
 that are in the `src/main/resources/view` folder.<br>
 For example, the layout of the [`MainWindow`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/ui/MainWindow.java) is specified in
 [`MainWindow.fxml`](../src/main/resources/view/MainWindow.fxml)

The `UI` component,
* Executes user commands using the `Logic` component.
* Binds itself to some data in the `Model` so that the UI can auto-update when data in the `Model` change.
* Responds to events raised from various parts of the App and updates the UI accordingly.

### Logic component

<img src="images/LogicClassDiagram.png" width="800"><br>

**API** : [`Logic.java`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/logic/Logic.java)

1. `Logic` uses the `Parser` class to parse the user command.
2. This results in a `Command` object which is executed by the `LogicManager`.
3. The command execution can affect the `Model` (e.g. adding a task) and/or raise events.
4. The result of the command execution is encapsulated as a `CommandResult` object which is passed back to the `Ui`.

Given below is the Sequence Diagram for interactions within the `Logic` component for the `execute("delete 1")`
 API call.<br>
<img src="images/DeletePersonSdForLogic.png" width="800"><br>

### Model component

<img src="images/ModelClassDiagram.png" width="800"><br>

**API** : [`Model.java`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/model/Model.java)

The `Model`,
* stores a `UserPref` object that represents the user's preferences.
* stores the Task List data.
* exposes a `UnmodifiableObservableList<ReadOnlyTask>` that can be 'observed' e.g. the UI can be bound to this list
  so that the UI automatically updates when the data in the list change.
* does not depend on any of the other three components.

### Storage component

<img src="images/StorageClassDiagram.png" width="800"><br>

**API** : [`Storage.java`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/storage/Storage.java)

The `Storage` component,
* can save `UserPref` objects in json format and read it back.
* can save the Task List data in xml format and read it back.

### Common classes

Classes used by multiple components are in the `seedu.inbx0.commons` package.

## Implementation

### Logging

We are using `java.util.logging` package for logging. The `LogsCenter` class is used to manage the logging levels
and logging destinations.

* The logging level can be controlled using the `logLevel` setting in the configuration file
  (See [Configuration](#configuration))
* The `Logger` for a class can be obtained using `LogsCenter.getLogger(Class)` which will log messages according to
  the specified logging level
* Currently log messages are output through: `Console` and to a `.log` file.

**Logging Levels**

* `SEVERE` : Critical problem detected which may possibly cause the termination of the application
* `WARNING` : Can continue, but with caution
* `INFO` : Information showing the noteworthy actions by the App
* `FINE` : Details that is not usually noteworthy but may be useful in debugging
  e.g. print the actual list instead of just its size

### Configuration

Certain properties of the application can be controlled (e.g App name, logging level) through the configuration file 
(default: `config.json`):


## Testing

Tests can be found in the `./src/test/java` folder.

**In Eclipse**:
* To run all tests, right-click on the `src/test/java` folder and choose
  `Run as` > `JUnit Test`
* To run a subset of tests, you can right-click on a test package, test class, or a test and choose
  to run as a JUnit test.

**Using Gradle**:
* See [UsingGradle.md](UsingGradle.md) for how to run tests using Gradle.

We have two types of tests:

1. **GUI Tests** - These are _System Tests_ that test the entire App by simulating user actions on the GUI. 
   These are in the `guitests` package.
  
2. **Non-GUI Tests** - These are tests not involving the GUI. They include,
   1. _Unit tests_ targeting the lowest level methods/classes. <br>
      e.g. `seedu.inbx0.commons.UrlUtilTest`
   2. _Integration tests_ that are checking the integration of multiple code units 
     (those code units are assumed to be working).<br>
      e.g. `seedu.inbx0.storage.StorageManagerTest`
   3. Hybrids of unit and integration tests. These test are checking multiple code units as well as 
      how the are connected together.<br>
      e.g. `seedu.inbx0.logic.LogicManagerTest`
  
**Headless GUI Testing** :
Thanks to the [TestFX](https://github.com/TestFX/TestFX) library we use,
 our GUI tests can be run in the _headless_ mode. 
 In the headless mode, GUI tests do not show up on the screen.
 That means the developer can do other things on the Computer while the tests are running.<br>
 See [UsingGradle.md](UsingGradle.md#running-tests) to learn how to run tests in headless mode.
 
#### Troubleshooting tests
 **Problem: Tests fail because NullPointException when AssertionError is expected**
 * Reason: Assertions are not enabled for JUnit tests. 
   This can happen if you are not using a recent Eclipse version (i.e. _Neon_ or later)
 * Solution: Enable assertions in JUnit tests as described 
   [here](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2522897/eclipse-junit-ea-vm-option). <br>
   Delete run configurations created when you ran tests earlier.
  
## Dev Ops

### Build Automation

See [UsingGradle.md](UsingGradle.md) to learn how to use Gradle for build automation.

### Continuous Integration

We use [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/) to perform _Continuous Integration_ on our projects.
See [UsingTravis.md](UsingTravis.md) for more details.

### Making a Release

Here are the steps to create a new release.
 
 1. Generate a JAR file [using Gradle](UsingGradle.md#creating-the-jar-file).
 2. Tag the repo with the version number. e.g. `v0.1`
 2. [Crete a new release using GitHub](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-releases/) 
    and upload the JAR file your created.
   
### Managing Dependencies

A project often depends on third-party libraries. For example, Inbx_0 depends on the
[Jackson library](http://wiki.fasterxml.com/JacksonHome) for XML parsing. Managing these _dependencies_
can be automated using Gradle. For example, Gradle can download the dependencies automatically, which
is better than these alternatives.<br>
a. Include those libraries in the repo (this bloats the repo size)<br>
b. Require developers to download those libraries manually (this creates extra work for developers)<br>

## Appendix A : User Stories

Priorities: High (must have) - `* * *`, Medium (nice to have)  - `* *`,  Low (unlikely to have) - `*`


Priority | As a ... | I want to ... | So that I can...
-------- | :-------- | :--------- | :-----------
`* * *` | new user | see usage instructions | refer to instructions when I forget how to use the App
`* * *` | user | add a new task |
`* * *` | user | edit details of a task | make changes to tasks
`* * *` | user | delete a task | remove entries that I no longer need
`* * *` | user | to mark tasks as done | keep track of completed tasks 
`* * *` | user | find a task by name | locate details of tasks without having to go through the entire list
`* *`   | user | categorise my tasks by date | view which tasks are due on certain dates
`* *`   | user | change storage location | access the file data easily
`*`     | user | undo last action taken | rectify any accidental mistakes
`*`     | user | be reminded of upcoming tasks | remember tasks
`*`     | user | auto-complete my commands | be more efficient with typing commands


## Appendix B : Use Cases

(For all use cases below, the **System** is the `Inbx_0` and the **Actor** is the `user`, unless specified otherwise)

#### Use case: Add task

**MSS**

1. User requests to add a task
2. Inbx_0 creates the task and saves it into the storage file <br>
Use case ends.

**Extensions**

1a. User requests to add a [duplicate task](#duplicate-task)
> 1a1. Inbx_0 shows an error message <br>
  Use case ends

1b. Inbx_0 detects an error in the data entered
 >   1b1. Inbx_0 requests for the correct data
     1b2. User enters new data <br>
     Steps 1b1-1b2 are repeated until data contains no errors
     Use case resumes from step 2.

#### Use case: List all tasks

**MSS**

1. User requests to list all tasks
2. Inbx_0 shows the list of tasks <br>
Use case ends.

**Extensions**

2a. The list is empty

> Use case ends

#### Use case: List all tasks that are due before a specific date

**MSS**

1. User requests to list tasks that are due before a specific date
2. Inbx_0 retrieves the required tasks and displays them in a list <br>
Use case ends.

**Extensions**

2a. The list is empty

> Use case ends

#### Use case: Delete task

**MSS**

1. User requests to list tasks
2. Inbx_0 shows a list of tasks
3. User requests to delete a specific task in the list
4. Inbx_0 deletes the task <br>
Use case ends.

**Extensions**

2a. The list is empty

> Use case ends

3a. The given index is invalid

> 3a1. Inbx_0 shows an invalid INDEX error message <br>
  Use case resumes at step 2

#### Use case: Undo add task

**MSS**

1. User requests to undo his add task action
2. Inbx_0 deletes the most recenty added task <br>
Use case ends.

#### Use case: Undo delete task

**MSS**

1. User requests to undo his delete task action
2. Inbx_0 readds the most recenty deleted task <br>
Use case ends.

#### Use case: Clear the tasklist

**MSS**

1. User requests to clear the list of tasks
2. Inbx_0 deletes the entire task list <br>
Use case ends.


## Appendix C : Non Functional Requirements

1. Should work on any [mainstream OS](#mainstream-os) as long as it has Java `1.8.0_60` or higher installed.
2. Should be able to hold up to 5000 tasks.
3. Should come with automated unit tests and open source code.
4. Should favor DOS style commands over Unix-style commands.
5. Should have an easy to use GUI.

## Appendix D : Glossary

##### Mainstream OS

> Windows, Linux, Unix, OS-X

##### IDE

> An Integrated Developement Environment used to develop the application.

##### UI

> The User Interface that is presented to the user.

##### Duplicate Task

> A task that has the same name, start date, start time, end date and end time.



## Appendix E : Product Survey

A Product Survey was conducted to study existing products on the market to gather insights and inspiration for our own product. We looked at various Task Managers on the market such as Google Calendar, Wunerlist, Todo.txt, Evernote and Google Keep. We then evaluated their common features and benefits that they offer to the consumers. We will then implement the more useful features while leaving out the more superfluous ones.

Commit message:

Add NFR, add Product Survey for Google Keep, Add FAQ on userguide

docs/DeveloperGuide.md, after:

# Developer Guide 

* [Setting Up](#setting-up)
* [Design](#design)
* [Implementation](#implementation)
* [Testing](#testing)
* [Dev Ops](#dev-ops)
* [Appendix A: User Stories](#appendix-a--user-stories)
* [Appendix B: Use Cases](#appendix-b--use-cases)
* [Appendix C: Non Functional Requirements](#appendix-c--non-functional-requirements)
* [Appendix D: Glossary](#appendix-d--glossary)
* [Appendix E : Product Survey](#appendix-e--product-survey)


## Setting up

#### Prerequisites

1. **JDK `1.8.0_60`**  or later<br>

    > Having any Java 8 version is not enough. <br>
    This app will not work with earlier versions of Java 8.
    
2. **Eclipse** IDE
3. **e(fx)clipse** plugin for Eclipse (Do the steps 2 onwards given in
   [this page](http://www.eclipse.org/efxclipse/install.html#for-the-ambitious))
4. **Buildship Gradle Integration** plugin from the Eclipse Marketplace


#### Importing the project into Eclipse

0. Fork this repo, and clone the fork to your computer
1. Open Eclipse (Note: Ensure you have installed the **e(fx)clipse** and **buildship** plugins as given 
   in the prerequisites above)
2. Click `File` > `Import`
3. Click `Gradle` > `Gradle Project` > `Next` > `Next`
4. Click `Browse`, then locate the project's directory
5. Click `Finish`

  > * If you are asked whether to 'keep' or 'overwrite' config files, choose to 'keep'.
  > * Depending on your connection speed and server load, it can even take up to 30 minutes for the set up to finish
      (This is because Gradle downloads library files from servers during the project set up process)
  > * If Eclipse auto-changed any settings files during the import process, you can discard those changes.
  
#### Troubleshooting project setup

**Problem: Eclipse reports compile errors after new commits are pulled from Git**
* Reason: Eclipse fails to recognize new files that appeared due to the Git pull. 
* Solution: Refresh the project in Eclipse:<br> 
  Right click on the project (in Eclipse package explorer), choose `Gradle` -> `Refresh Gradle Project`.
  
**Problem: Eclipse reports some required libraries missing**
* Reason: Required libraries may not have been downloaded during the project import. 
* Solution: [Run tests using Gardle](UsingGradle.md) once (to refresh the libraries).
 

## Design

### Architecture

<img src="images/Architecture.png" width="600"><br>
The **_Architecture Diagram_** given above explains the high-level design of the App.
Given below is a quick overview of each component.

`Main` has only one class called [`MainApp`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/MainApp.java). It is responsible for,
* At app launch: Initializes the components in the correct sequence, and connect them up with each other.
* At shut down: Shuts down the components and invoke cleanup method where necessary.

[**`Commons`**](#common-classes) represents a collection of classes used by multiple other components.
Two of those classes play important roles at the architecture level.
* `EventsCentre` : This class (written using [Google's Event Bus library](https://github.com/google/guava/wiki/EventBusExplained))
  is used by components to communicate with other components using events (i.e. a form of _Event Driven_ design)
* `LogsCenter` : Used by many classes to write log messages to the App's log file.

The rest of the App consists four components.
* [**`UI`**](#ui-component) : The UI of tha App.
* [**`Logic`**](#logic-component) : The command executor.
* [**`Model`**](#model-component) : Holds the data of the App in-memory.
* [**`Storage`**](#storage-component) : Reads data from, and writes data to, the hard disk.

Each of the four components
* Defines its _API_ in an `interface` with the same name as the Component.
* Exposes its functionality using a `{Component Name}Manager` class.

For example, the `Logic` component (see the class diagram given below) defines it's API in the `Logic.java`
interface and exposes its functionality using the `LogicManager.java` class.<br>
<img src="images/LogicClassDiagram.png" width="800"><br>

The _Sequence Diagram_ below shows how the components interact for the scenario where the user issues the
command `delete 3`.

<img src="images\SDforDeletePerson.png" width="800">

>Note how the `Model` simply raises a `TaskListChangedEvent` when the Task List data are changed,
 instead of asking the `Storage` to save the updates to the hard disk.

The diagram below shows how the `EventsCenter` reacts to that event, which eventually results in the updates
being saved to the hard disk and the status bar of the UI being updated to reflect the 'Last Updated' time. <br>
<img src="images\SDforDeletePersonEventHandling.png" width="800">

> Note how the event is propagated through the `EventsCenter` to the `Storage` and `UI` without `Model` having
  to be coupled to either of them. This is an example of how this Event Driven approach helps us reduce direct 
  coupling between components.

The sections below give more details of each component.

### UI component

<img src="images/UiClassDiagram.png" width="800"><br>

**API** : [`Ui.java`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/ui/Ui.java)

The UI consists of a `MainWindow` that is made up of parts e.g.`CommandBox`, `ResultDisplay`, `TaskListPanel`,
`StatusBarFooter`, `BrowserPanel` etc. All these, including the `MainWindow`, inherit from the abstract `UiPart` class
and they can be loaded using the `UiPartLoader`.

The `UI` component uses JavaFx UI framework. The layout of these UI parts are defined in matching `.fxml` files
 that are in the `src/main/resources/view` folder.<br>
 For example, the layout of the [`MainWindow`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/ui/MainWindow.java) is specified in
 [`MainWindow.fxml`](../src/main/resources/view/MainWindow.fxml)

The `UI` component,
* Executes user commands using the `Logic` component.
* Binds itself to some data in the `Model` so that the UI can auto-update when data in the `Model` change.
* Responds to events raised from various parts of the App and updates the UI accordingly.

### Logic component

<img src="images/LogicClassDiagram.png" width="800"><br>

**API** : [`Logic.java`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/logic/Logic.java)

1. `Logic` uses the `Parser` class to parse the user command.
2. This results in a `Command` object which is executed by the `LogicManager`.
3. The command execution can affect the `Model` (e.g. adding a task) and/or raise events.
4. The result of the command execution is encapsulated as a `CommandResult` object which is passed back to the `Ui`.

Given below is the Sequence Diagram for interactions within the `Logic` component for the `execute("delete 1")`
 API call.<br>
<img src="images/DeletePersonSdForLogic.png" width="800"><br>

### Model component

<img src="images/ModelClassDiagram.png" width="800"><br>

**API** : [`Model.java`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/model/Model.java)

The `Model`,
* stores a `UserPref` object that represents the user's preferences.
* stores the Task List data.
* exposes a `UnmodifiableObservableList<ReadOnlyTask>` that can be 'observed' e.g. the UI can be bound to this list
  so that the UI automatically updates when the data in the list change.
* does not depend on any of the other three components.

### Storage component

<img src="images/StorageClassDiagram.png" width="800"><br>

**API** : [`Storage.java`](../src/main/java/seedu/inbx0/storage/Storage.java)

The `Storage` component,
* can save `UserPref` objects in json format and read it back.
* can save the Task List data in xml format and read it back.

### Common classes

Classes used by multiple components are in the `seedu.inbx0.commons` package.

## Implementation

### Logging

We are using `java.util.logging` package for logging. The `LogsCenter` class is used to manage the logging levels
and logging destinations.

* The logging level can be controlled using the `logLevel` setting in the configuration file
  (See [Configuration](#configuration))
* The `Logger` for a class can be obtained using `LogsCenter.getLogger(Class)` which will log messages according to
  the specified logging level
* Currently log messages are output through: `Console` and to a `.log` file.

**Logging Levels**

* `SEVERE` : Critical problem detected which may possibly cause the termination of the application
* `WARNING` : Can continue, but with caution
* `INFO` : Information showing the noteworthy actions by the App
* `FINE` : Details that is not usually noteworthy but may be useful in debugging
  e.g. print the actual list instead of just its size

### Configuration

Certain properties of the application can be controlled (e.g App name, logging level) through the configuration file 
(default: `config.json`):


## Testing

Tests can be found in the `./src/test/java` folder.

**In Eclipse**:
* To run all tests, right-click on the `src/test/java` folder and choose
  `Run as` > `JUnit Test`
* To run a subset of tests, you can right-click on a test package, test class, or a test and choose
  to run as a JUnit test.

**Using Gradle**:
* See [UsingGradle.md](UsingGradle.md) for how to run tests using Gradle.

We have two types of tests:

1. **GUI Tests** - These are _System Tests_ that test the entire App by simulating user actions on the GUI. 
   These are in the `guitests` package.
  
2. **Non-GUI Tests** - These are tests not involving the GUI. They include,
   1. _Unit tests_ targeting the lowest level methods/classes. <br>
      e.g. `seedu.inbx0.commons.UrlUtilTest`
   2. _Integration tests_ that are checking the integration of multiple code units 
     (those code units are assumed to be working).<br>
      e.g. `seedu.inbx0.storage.StorageManagerTest`
   3. Hybrids of unit and integration tests. These test are checking multiple code units as well as 
      how the are connected together.<br>
      e.g. `seedu.inbx0.logic.LogicManagerTest`
  
**Headless GUI Testing** :
Thanks to the [TestFX](https://github.com/TestFX/TestFX) library we use,
 our GUI tests can be run in the _headless_ mode. 
 In the headless mode, GUI tests do not show up on the screen.
 That means the developer can do other things on the Computer while the tests are running.<br>
 See [UsingGradle.md](UsingGradle.md#running-tests) to learn how to run tests in headless mode.
 
#### Troubleshooting tests
 **Problem: Tests fail because NullPointException when AssertionError is expected**
 * Reason: Assertions are not enabled for JUnit tests. 
   This can happen if you are not using a recent Eclipse version (i.e. _Neon_ or later)
 * Solution: Enable assertions in JUnit tests as described 
   [here](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2522897/eclipse-junit-ea-vm-option). <br>
   Delete run configurations created when you ran tests earlier.
  
## Dev Ops

### Build Automation

See [UsingGradle.md](UsingGradle.md) to learn how to use Gradle for build automation.

### Continuous Integration

We use [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/) to perform _Continuous Integration_ on our projects.
See [UsingTravis.md](UsingTravis.md) for more details.

### Making a Release

Here are the steps to create a new release.
 
 1. Generate a JAR file [using Gradle](UsingGradle.md#creating-the-jar-file).
 2. Tag the repo with the version number. e.g. `v0.1`
 2. [Crete a new release using GitHub](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-releases/) 
    and upload the JAR file your created.
   
### Managing Dependencies

A project often depends on third-party libraries. For example, Inbx_0 depends on the
[Jackson library](http://wiki.fasterxml.com/JacksonHome) for XML parsing. Managing these _dependencies_
can be automated using Gradle. For example, Gradle can download the dependencies automatically, which
is better than these alternatives.<br>
a. Include those libraries in the repo (this bloats the repo size)<br>
b. Require developers to download those libraries manually (this creates extra work for developers)<br>

## Appendix A : User Stories

Priorities: High (must have) - `* * *`, Medium (nice to have)  - `* *`,  Low (unlikely to have) - `*`


Priority | As a ... | I want to ... | So that I can...
-------- | :-------- | :--------- | :-----------
`* * *` | new user | see usage instructions | refer to instructions when I forget how to use the App
`* * *` | user | add a new task |
`* * *` | user | edit details of a task | make changes to tasks
`* * *` | user | delete a task | remove entries that I no longer need
`* * *` | user | to mark tasks as done | keep track of completed tasks 
`* * *` | user | find a task by name | locate details of tasks without having to go through the entire list
`* *`   | user | categorise my tasks by date | view which tasks are due on certain dates
`* *`   | user | change storage location | access the file data easily
`*`     | user | undo last action taken | rectify any accidental mistakes
`*`     | user | be reminded of upcoming tasks | remember tasks
`*`     | user | auto-complete my commands | be more efficient with typing commands


## Appendix B : Use Cases

(For all use cases below, the **System** is the `Inbx_0` and the **Actor** is the `user`, unless specified otherwise)

#### Use case: Add task

**MSS**

1. User requests to add a task
2. Inbx_0 creates the task and saves it into the storage file <br>
Use case ends.

**Extensions**

1a. User requests to add a [duplicate task](#duplicate-task)
> 1a1. Inbx_0 shows an error message <br>
  Use case ends

1b. Inbx_0 detects an error in the data entered
 >   1b1. Inbx_0 requests for the correct data
     1b2. User enters new data <br>
     Steps 1b1-1b2 are repeated until data contains no errors
     Use case resumes from step 2.

#### Use case: List all tasks

**MSS**

1. User requests to list all tasks
2. Inbx_0 shows the list of tasks <br>
Use case ends.

**Extensions**

2a. The list is empty

> Use case ends

#### Use case: List all tasks that are due before a specific date

**MSS**

1. User requests to list tasks that are due before a specific date
2. Inbx_0 retrieves the required tasks and displays them in a list <br>
Use case ends.

**Extensions**

2a. The list is empty

> Use case ends

#### Use case: Delete task

**MSS**

1. User requests to list tasks
2. Inbx_0 shows a list of tasks
3. User requests to delete a specific task in the list
4. Inbx_0 deletes the task <br>
Use case ends.

**Extensions**

2a. The list is empty

> Use case ends

3a. The given index is invalid

> 3a1. Inbx_0 shows an invalid INDEX error message <br>
  Use case resumes at step 2

#### Use case: Undo add task

**MSS**

1. User requests to undo his add task action
2. Inbx_0 deletes the most recenty added task <br>
Use case ends.

#### Use case: Undo delete task

**MSS**

1. User requests to undo his delete task action
2. Inbx_0 re-adds the most recenty deleted task <br>
Use case ends.

#### Use case: Clear the tasklist

**MSS**

1. User requests to clear the list of tasks
2. Inbx_0 deletes the entire task list <br>
Use case ends.


## Appendix C : Non Functional Requirements

1. Should work on any [mainstream OS](#mainstream-os) as long as it has Java `1.8.0_60` or higher installed.
2. Should be able to hold up to 5000 tasks.
3. Should come with automated unit tests and open source code.
4. Should favor DOS style commands over Unix-style commands.
5. Should work offline without any internet connection.
6. Should save the data in a human editable XML file.
7. Should be standalone without depending on any external plugin.
8. Should not require any installer.

## Appendix D : Glossary

##### Mainstream OS

> Windows, Linux, Unix, OS-X

##### IDE

> An Integrated Developement Environment used to develop the application.

##### UI

> The User Interface that is presented to the user.

##### Duplicate Task

> A task that has the same name, start date, start time, end date and end time.



## Appendix E : Product Survey

A Product Survey was conducted to study existing products on the market to gather insights and inspiration for our own product. We looked at various Task Managers on the market such as Google Calendar, Wunerlist, Todo.txt, Evernote and Google Keep. We then evaluated their common features and benefits that they offer to the consumers. We will then implement the more useful features while leaving out the more superfluous ones.

For Google Keep, the application has a colorful design and a simple interface to use. It has both a mobile and desktop version, which synchronises with each other whenever a change is made. Users can add Notes, Lists or Reminders. Users can type anything they want into the text fields and even add images to the notes themselves. Notes can be shared with multiple people via email, useful for keeping a shared note such as grocery lists or todo lists. While it is possible to set reminders for individual notes, there is no way to represent the whole list of notes in chronological order as it is up to the user to shift the Notes Cards around the UI as they wish.
